h1. Learning The Go Programming Language

A sandbox for continuous learning of the Go Programming Language for Jason Brownlee. 

Go is an emerging programming language by google (mountain view) intended for use in system-level programming, like C. It is compiled, has a scripting language like feel to the syntax, and does not require memory management as it uses a garbage collector at runtime. Go does have pointers and references, but there is no pointer arithmetic when working with arrays (use slices). There are strings that are immutable, and arrays that are mutable. It has support for concurrency built into the language with goroutines and channels.

h2. Programs

Work product created while learning go

h3. My Programs

* *geneticalgorithm.go*: a simple genetic algorithm applied to the one max function (procedural)
** See my blog post "A Genetic Algorithm in Google's Go Language":http://www.neverreadpassively.com/2009/12/genetic-algorithm-in-googles-go.html

h3. Tutorials 

* *helloworld.go*: hello world 
* *echo.go*: echo program
* *primes.go*: example of searching for primes using channels and goroutines
* *multiplexer.go*: example of implicit multiplexing using channels and goroutines
* *webserver.go*: a simple webserver

h3. Other

* *build.sh*: compiles and links a go file
* *build.clean.sh*: deletes all .6 and .out files

h2. References

A collection of _useful_ references directed toward continuous learning the Go programming language.

h3. Seminal

* "Go Homepage":http://golang.org official
** "Go Tutorial":http://golang.org/doc/go_tutorial.html gentle introduction to the language
** "Effective Go":http://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html summary of types and language constructs 
** "Go pkg API":http://golang.org/pkg/ - well, the closest thing we have to an API at this stage (beats reading src)
* "Go Nuts":http://groups.google.com/group/golang-nuts a go user group on google groups

h3. Basics

* "How to install the Go programming language on OSX Snow Leopard":http://jeremyhubert.com/articles/installing-google-go-on-osx-snow-leopard.html
** Additionally, due to permission problems I had to build using: sudo -E ./all.bash
* "Ready, Set, Go":http://www.engineyard.com/blog/2009/ready-set-go/ Introduction and summary of go
* "Google's New Language":http://scienceblogs.com/goodmath/2009/11/googles_new_language_go.php Go": (good math, bad math)
* "Go Textmate Bundle":http://github.com/AlanQuatermain/go-tmbundle - the build in textmate doesn't work for me, i use scripts instead
* "Go Language Resources":http://go-lang.cat-v.org/
* "Go Programming Language: Tech Talk":http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rKnDgT73v8s#t=8m53 google tech talk introducing the language

h3. Other

* "Why Google's Go is a Bore":http://monoc.mo.funpic.de/go-rant/

h2. License

(The MIT License)

Copyright © 2009 Jason Brownlee

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the “Software”), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
